you step on stage in front of a crowd of
people
you stand in front of the microphone you
look out in front of the crowd
you open your mouth
and you freeze you don't remember what
you were going to say you start to panic
it's one of the biggest fears that
anybody in the world has public speaking
and specifically getting stage fright or
forgetting what you're going to say in a
public speaking opportunity
has this ever happened to you
have you heard of it happening to other
people and you're worried it could
happen to you
regardless of your situation whatever
has prompted you to land on this video
first off thank you for taking the time
to watch
and i hope to over the next few minutes
share some tips and advice to
drastically reduce the chance of you
freezing or getting stage fright while
public speaking hey everyone my name is
wade patterson i have a whole youtube
channel that is dedicated to impactful
communication i am passionate about
public speaking and all forms of
communication so if that is something if
that is an area of life you want to
improve upon consider subscribing to my
channel hit the notifications bell so
you never miss a video and comment below
i'd love to hear if stage fright or
freezing well public speaking is
something that has ever happened to you
i do my best to go through every single
comment
so make sure leave a comment i will
definitely check it out i love to hear
your own story so back to the tips about
how to avoid stage fright or freezing
while public speaking
the first tip is something that i talk
about all the time on this channel and
the reason i talk about it because i
think it is the single most important
thing when it comes to becoming an
effective public speaker and it's not
something that's going to shock you or
surprise you it's very simple and that
is to practice practice practice
practice it is so important and i'm not
sure why
some people think they don't need to
practice when it comes to public
speaking
perhaps it's because there's these
individuals out there who claim that
they always just wing it when it comes
to speeches that they get in front of
the audience they grab the microphone
and they can just talk about whatever is
on their brain and sure there are some
of these individuals that exist in the
world but i promise you they are few and
far between even the best public
speakers
most often are people who put in a lot
of time a lot of energy a lot of
practice public speaking for myself i am
definitely not one of those individuals
that can wing it whenever i have an
opportunity to speak in front of a group
i've often spent a lot of time
practicing for that opportunity and
usually that helps me ensure that i'm
going to do a pretty good job and also
that i'm probably going to be a bit less
nervous about doing it because i've
already done this speech
10 20 times in my head or in my vehicle
driving to work
so it feels a lot more natural than if i
was to just do it from scratch on the
spot the second tip i have because
practice was kind of an obvious one so
the second tip i have to avoid stage
fright or freezing when public speaking
is to have water on hand one of the big
causes for people to slip up when
they're speaking in front of a group
is that their bodies or your body it may
have a weird our bodies do some weird
things when we speak in front of a group
of people because of the nerves and all
of the emotions we're experiencing and
one of those things often has to do with
your voice and your mouth and our mouths
tend to get really really dry when we
speak in front of a group of people
maybe you've been to
a presentation where somebody has been
talking and
you just hear this gross like i
apologize that probably sounded horrible
coming into this mic but you hear that
gross almost like mouth smacking sound
of like your mouth just is dry
and what happens is if you have that
physical body response that your mouth
gets really dry and you notice it you
start to panic because we notice it more
than than anybody probably in the
audience even notices it but then we get
panicked that they're really noticing it
and then that can cause us to lose track
of where we were at in our speech and we
can start to panic and get really
nervous a really important thing even if
you never take a sip of water is to have
water nearby
i do this every time i speak in front of
a group of people i always have water
because i've had that happen to me and
the truth is
even going and grabbing your water and
taking a sip even if you don't need it
for your mouth being dry
it allows you to take a second to pause
to collect your thoughts so even if
you're freezing for a different reason
you can grab that water you can take a
sip nobody is going to find that odd
that doesn't look strange it doesn't
look weird people are used to public
speakers sipping water in between and so
to have that on hand it will buy you a
couple extra seconds and it will again
reduce those chances that you experience
total freezing or stage fright when
public speaking the third tip i have is
if you have notes written notes
don't have one single piece of paper
like just one piece of paper in your
hands
this is a weird one but here's my
rationale for it
when we have one single piece of paper
in our hands
another body response we often have
along with getting a dry mouth
is our hands shaking that is incredibly
common next time you're watching a bunch
of people speak in public especially if
they haven't done so before take a look
at their hands a lot of people
naturally have their hands shake when
they speak in front of a group of people
now the reason for this tip of not
having just one piece of paper in your
hand is that if your hand is shaking and
you have a single piece of paper
that is going to be very noticeable the
paper is going to flutter it may even
make a noise i have seen some people who
who really start shaking when they
public speak where that paper is like
it's proper noisy as they're trying to
talk and you don't want to have that
situation there's a couple ways around
it if you do just have one piece of
paper and there's a lectern you can put
the paper on the lectern but
i don't like and those who have watched
other videos you know that i've given
this tip in the past i don't like the
idea of standing behind a lectern
because that eliminates so much of your
body language
so if possible move the lectern to the
side you still have your notes that are
there that you can speak to the crowd
you can speak to the audience you can
quickly turn reference your notes and
then turn back and open up and continue
with the speaking so if there is a
lectern or a table where you can set
your notes and they're still within
eyesight that works just fine if that is
not the case there's nothing to set your
single piece of paper if you have a book
or a binder something hardcover
preferably you can carry that with you
or maybe even a clipboard or something
like that that way even if your hands
start shaking
a binder is too heavy to be noticeable
it will people won't know that your hand
is shaking even if it is a little bit
the single piece of paper it's going to
flutter it's going to make noise so have
something solid because
again that's just another prompt
for us to freeze up public speaking if
something is happening shaking then we
get nervous we think everyone is paying
attention to that thing that is
happening and it takes away from our
speech if you can eliminate that
have something solid place it on a
lectern
it's one less chance of you freezing
while public speaking the next tip i
have for reducing the chance of stage
fighter freezing while speaking in front
of a group of people is to stand up and
face the audience before
you actually deliver your speech
depending on the venue depending on the
format this may be something that is a
little bit difficult but it's actually
not usually that difficult
most events that i'm at at some point if
i'm delivering a speech i will make my
way to the front just off to the side in
the corner and i will stand and i will
face the audience the reason for this is
that one of the most daunting things for
many people
is especially if you're sitting down at
a long event and then suddenly you're
asked to speak you walk up to the front
and it's your first time facing everyone
and that experience
maybe it's just not what you had
envisioned in your head that vantage
point where you're in front of all of
these faces staring at you it all of a
sudden becomes very intimidating and
that is one of the reasons people freeze
but if you can find a time in advance to
casually without anyone noticing stand
near the front maybe it's during a break
or something like that and and face
the audience face all of the people now
you've already experienced that vantage
point so later in the day when you're
called up to give your speech you make
your way up to the front you stand you
look at everyone and you've already had
that mental picture you visualized
yourself giving that speech already and
it's going to be less scary when you
actually do it another tip i like to
have is to stand up in advance just in
general so
the earlier mention was to stand up and
face the audience but if you know your
speech is coming up pretty soon stand
off to the side of the room you have a
certain energy when you're when you're
stood up compared to when you're sat
down and it's helping your body get
ready and prepare for the fact that
you're about to deliver a speech you're
going to come out with more energy more
calm more composed the final tip i have
for you to avoid stage fright to avoid
public speaking not to avoid public
speaking to avoid freezing while public
speaking
is to use humor and again anyone who has
followed this channel for a little while
you've seen any of my other videos i
probably mentioned at some point
injecting humor in your speech it is
such a powerful tool because it does two
things first off it relaxes the audience
often audiences are wondering when a
speaker takes the stage whether he or
she is going to be entertaining or funny
or if they're going to enjoy the
experience if you can sprinkle some
humor in early and get them laughing or
smiling
that relaxes the audience they settle
down they say okay this is going to be a
good experience as for you the speaker
there is no bigger shot of confidence it
gives you than hearing your audience
laugh seeing them smile knowing that
they are enjoying themselves the earlier
you can do that in the speech the better
it's really powerful it's going to relax
you it's going to make you more
comfortable and again
significantly reduce the chances of
freezing or getting stage fright while
public speaking i hope that these tips
were helpful to you if you're about to
deliver a public speech maybe you
haven't really done this before and
you're really nervous you're going to be
fine feel free to check out some of the
other videos i cover the whole gamut of
public speaking it's something i'm
passionate about don't think you're the
only one feeling these emotions it is
incredibly common to be nervous about
public speaking i still get nervous
before i speak in front of groups of
people it is natural it is normal but
you are going to do an incredible job if
you liked this video consider
subscribing to my channel thank you so
much for watching and i'll catch you on
the next one